Variance analysis and earned value.
A key element of project control is measuring and reporting project performance,
so this section will cover some basic ways to measure your
project's performance without too much work.
Please recall that in the communication or reporting
management section of this module you were deciding what
to report to your stakeholders.
Variance reporting is a key part of your reporting portfolio.
So why should you worry about project variances?
Because you want to know at the earliest possible time to be
able to detect any performance variances.
You must always be able to know, is my project on track?
So, what's a variance?
Let's find out.
Let's define variance.
A variance is the difference between the baseline or planned element
value and the actual element value that occurred.
Okay, let's look at a very simple example.
You planned to spend $100, that's a baseline or planned element value,
but you actually spent $150, that's the actually element value that occurred,
so your variance, meaning the difference between the two is $50.
So the analysis of this variance is that you are over budget,
and potentially your project could be at risk in terms
of maybe spending too much money.
Now let's see some examples of other variance elements you might want to use in your projects.